---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "gdashboard_timeseries Data Source - terraform-provider-gdashboard"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Timeseries panel data source
---

# gdashboard_timeseries (Data Source)

Timeseries panel data source

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "gdashboard_timeseries" "test" {
  title = "Test"

  legend {
    calculations = ["min", "max", "mean"]
    display_mode = "table"
    placement    = "bottom"
  }

  tooltip {
    mode = "multi"
  }

  field {
    unit     = "bytes"
    decimals = 1
    min      = 0
    max      = 10000

    color {
      mode        = "palette-classic"
      fixed_color = "green"
      series_by   = "last"
    }
  }

  graph {
    fill_opacity = 10
    show_points  = "always"
    span_nulls   = true
  }

  targets {
    prometheus {
      uid           = "prometheus"
      expr          = "sum(increase(jvm_memory_total{container_name='container'}[$__rate_interval]))"
      instant       = false
      ref_id        = "Prometheus_Query"
      min_interval  = "30"
      legend_format = "Memory total"
    }

    cloudwatch {
      uid         = "cloudwatch"
      namespace   = "AWS/ApplicationELB"
      metric_name = "HTTPCode_Target_2XX_Count"
      statistic   = "Sum"
      match_exact = true
      region      = "af-south-1"

      dimension {
        name  = "LoadBalancer"
        value = "lb_arn_suffix"
      }

      dimension {
        name  = "TargetGroup"
        value = "target_group"
      }

      ref_id        = "CW_Query"
      period        = "30"
      legend_format = "Request Count"
    }
  }

}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `title` (String) The title of this panel.

### Optional

- `axis` (Block List, Max: 1) Axis display options. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--axis))
- `description` (String) The description of this panel.
- `field` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field))
- `graph` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--graph))
- `legend` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--legend))
- `targets` (Block List, Max: 3) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--targets))
- `tooltip` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--tooltip))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `json` (String) The Grafana-API-compatible JSON of this panel.

<a id="nestedblock--axis"></a>
### Nested Schema for `axis`

Optional:

- `label` (String) The custom text label for the y-axis.
- `placement` (String) The placement of the y-axis. The choices are: `auto`, `left`, `right`, `hidden`.
- `scale` (Block List, Max: 1) Can be used to configure the scale of the y-axis. Another way visualize series that differ by orders of magnitude is to use a logarithmic scales. This is really useful for data usage or latency measurements. The goal here is to avoid one series dominating and delegating all the others to the bottom of the graph. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--axis--scale))
- `soft_max` (Number) The soft maximum of y-axis. By default, the Grafana workspace sets the range for the y-axis automatically based on the data.The `soft_max` setting can prevent blips from appearing as mountains when the data is mostly flat, and hard min or max derived from standard min and max field options can prevent intermittent spikes from flattening useful detail by clipping the spikes past a defined point.
- `soft_min` (Number) The soft minimum of y-axis. By default, the Grafana workspace sets the range for the y-axis automatically based on the data.The `soft_min` setting can prevent blips from appearing as mountains when the data is mostly flat, and hard min or max derived from standard min and max field options can prevent intermittent spikes from flattening useful detail by clipping the spikes past a defined point.

<a id="nestedblock--axis--scale"></a>
### Nested Schema for `axis.scale`

Required:

- `type` (String) The type of the scale. The choices are: `linear`, `log`.

Optional:

- `log` (Number) The power of the logarithmic scale. The choices are: `2`, `10`.



<a id="nestedblock--field"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field`

Optional:

- `color` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--color))
- `decimals` (Number)
- `mappings` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--mappings))
- `max` (Number)
- `min` (Number)
- `no_value` (Number)
- `thresholds` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--thresholds))
- `unit` (String)

<a id="nestedblock--field--color"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.color`

Optional:

- `fixed_color` (String)
- `mode` (String)
- `series_by` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--field--mappings"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.mappings`

Optional:

- `range` (Block List, Max: 10) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--mappings--range))
- `regex` (Block List, Max: 10) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--mappings--regex))
- `special` (Block List, Max: 10) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--mappings--special))
- `value` (Block List, Max: 10) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--mappings--value))

<a id="nestedblock--field--mappings--range"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.mappings.range`

Required:

- `from` (String)
- `to` (String)

Optional:

- `color` (String)
- `display_text` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--field--mappings--regex"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.mappings.regex`

Required:

- `pattern` (String)

Optional:

- `color` (String)
- `display_text` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--field--mappings--special"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.mappings.special`

Optional:

- `color` (String)
- `display_text` (String)
- `match` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--field--mappings--value"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.mappings.value`

Required:

- `value` (String)

Optional:

- `color` (String)
- `display_text` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--field--thresholds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.thresholds`

Optional:

- `mode` (String)
- `step` (Block List, Max: 20) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--field--thresholds--step))

<a id="nestedblock--field--thresholds--step"></a>
### Nested Schema for `field.thresholds.step`

Required:

- `color` (String)

Optional:

- `value` (Number)




<a id="nestedblock--graph"></a>
### Nested Schema for `graph`

Optional:

- `draw_style` (String)
- `fill_opacity` (Number)
- `gradient_mode` (String)
- `line_interpolation` (String)
- `line_style` (String)
- `line_width` (Number)
- `point_size` (Number)
- `show_points` (String)
- `span_nulls` (Boolean)
- `stack_series` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--legend"></a>
### Nested Schema for `legend`

Optional:

- `calculations` (List of String) Choose which of the standard calculations to show in the legend: min, max, mean
- `display_mode` (String) Use these settings to define how the legend appears in your visualization: list, table, hidden
- `placement` (String) Choose where to display the legend: bottom, right


<a id="nestedblock--targets"></a>
### Nested Schema for `targets`

Optional:

- `cloudwatch` (Block List, Max: 5) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--targets--cloudwatch))
- `prometheus` (Block List, Max: 5) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--targets--prometheus))

<a id="nestedblock--targets--cloudwatch"></a>
### Nested Schema for `targets.cloudwatch`

Required:

- `metric_name` (String)
- `namespace` (String)
- `statistic` (String)
- `uid` (String) CloudWatch DataSource UID

Optional:

- `dimension` (Block List, Max: 5) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--targets--cloudwatch--dimension))
- `legend_format` (String)
- `match_exact` (Boolean)
- `period` (String)
- `ref_id` (String)
- `region` (String)

<a id="nestedblock--targets--cloudwatch--dimension"></a>
### Nested Schema for `targets.cloudwatch.dimension`

Required:

- `name` (String)
- `value` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--targets--prometheus"></a>
### Nested Schema for `targets.prometheus`

Required:

- `expr` (String)
- `uid` (String) Prometheus DataSource UID

Optional:

- `format` (String)
- `instant` (Boolean)
- `legend_format` (String)
- `min_interval` (String)
- `ref_id` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--tooltip"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tooltip`

Required:

- `mode` (String) When you hover your cursor over the visualization, Grafana can display tooltips


